Added blog post for annoucing slight v0.3 (#72)
deislabs/deislabs.io: content/posts/annoucing-slight-v0_3.md

---
title: "Annoucing Slight v0.3"
description: "Announcing new features and updates on Slight v0.3 release."
date: 2023-02-25 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
authorname: "Jiaxiao (Joe) Zhou"
author: "@jiaxiao_zhou"
authorlink: "https://twitter.com/jiaiao_zhou"
tags: ["slight", "spiderlightning", "Wasm", "WASI"]
---

We are excited to announce the release of Slight v0.3, the latest version of our WebAssembly runtime that utilizes SpiderLightning (also known as wasi-cloud) capabilities.

> 

Reviewer: OK, here we need a bullet summary of the new things that you discuss below. Fill the reader's mind _instantly_ with the magic that might interest them -- so that they keep reading. The way this reads, they should just magically be in love with Slight, and while we wish that were the case sadly experience tells us that they are not. 

What they ARE interested in is what they can DO with this -- but their reading time is precious and short. Tell them IMMEDIATELY what magic this contains right up front. Something like:

New in this release:
1. Making outbound http calls to services
2. working with message queues and pubsub
3. working with sql databases

and more is on the way. Let's dive into the new features.

> We are excited to announce the release of `Slight` v0.3, the latest version of our WebAssembly runtime that utilizes SpiderLightning (also known as `wasi-cloud`) capabilities.

Reviewer 2: I would recommend not putting the name Slight in a command block in documentation or blog posts because it makes the rendered paragraph look a bit cluttered and you aren't actually giving someone a command to copy/paste (which is when the command block formatting is helpful).

Author: Sounds good!

You can download the latest release by running the following command if you are using Linux or macOS:

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/deislabs/spiderlightning/main/install.sh)"
```

If you are using Windows, you can download the latest release by running this command:

```powershell

> iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/deislabs/spiderlightning/main/install.ps1'))

Reviewer 2: Thanks for providing both bash and powershell compatible instructions! 💯

Author: Thank you~

```

> This release includes several new features, such as the ability to author HTTP clients as Wasm modules, publish or receive events, query databases with SQL, and much more. You can find all the example Slight applications in [here](https://github.com/deislabs/spiderlightning/tree/main/examples). Now, let’s dive into it!

Reviewer 2: Just a general note about making accessible websites. Avoid making the hyperlinked word so generic that if someone using a screen reading is scanning for links to nagivate your site that they just get "here" or "click this", etc. It makes it really hard to navigate with a screenreader.

It really helps people out to make the link text descriptive enough that if you were only looking at a list of hyperlinked words, you could figure out where the link would go to. In this case, a little change makes a big difference in accessibility:
```suggestion
This release includes several new features, such as the ability to author HTTP clients as Wasm modules, publish or receive events, query databases with SQL, and much more. You can find all the [example Slight applications in our repository](https://github.com/deislabs/spiderlightning/tree/main/examples). Now, let’s dive into it!
```

### HTTP Client

> Previously, `Slight` only supports the ability to serve HTTP requests. You can write applications in Rust or C to handle incoming HTTP requests and compile them to Wasm modules. And now, `Slight` supports the ability to make a outbound HTTP request to a url. Take the following Rust program as an example:

Reviewer 2: nit: URL is usually all caps

```suggestion
Previously, `Slight` only supports the ability to serve HTTP requests. You can write applications in Rust or C to handle incoming HTTP requests and compile them to Wasm modules. And now, `Slight` supports the ability to make a outbound HTTP request to a URL. Take the following Rust program as an example:
```

The `handle_hello` function is responsible for handling incoming HTTP requests. It achieves this by creating a `Request` object from the generated `http_client` module, which is then sent using the `request` function. The `request` function makes an HTTP request to the URI defined in the `Request` struct.

It is worth noting that the `request` function is also generated. Its purpose is to handle the actual sending of the `Request` object. Once the `request` function has completed this task, it returns a `Response` object, which serves as the return value for the `handle_hello` function.

Developers can easily interface with the HTTP request processing mechanism by using the `handle_hello` function. They can be confident that their HTTP requests will be handled appropriately. This function is a crucial part of any HTTP-based application.

Lastly, to enable both `HTTP` and `HTTP-client` capabilities, we need to update the configuration file. Below is an example slightfile.toml file.

```rust
specversion = "0.2"

[[capability]]
resource = "http"
name = "my-rest-api"
    # This capability does not require any configs

[[capability]]
resource = "http-client"
name = "something"
```

> ### Exchange Messaging

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Sending and Receiving Messages
```

"Exchange Messaging" sounds like a thing. Perhaps, "Messaging", "Sending and Receiving Messages", or "Exchanging Messages".

> ### Exchange Messaging

Reviewer: remove the word Exchange, which is a Microsoft product and will immediately confuse people :-) "Message queues and pubsub"

> In this new release, we have combined the `message-queue` and `pub/sub` capabilities into one called `messaging`. The idea behind this move is that we think there are many overlaps and ambiguities to both capabilities and it made a difficult time for developers to choose one over another. If you want to know more about the design of the new messaging capability, please read this [proposal](https://github.com/deislabs/spiderlightning/blob/main/proposals/abandoned/pubsub-mq-interfaces-proposal.md) document that Dan drafted. 

Reviewer 2: Oh nice! I like how you noticed this was confusing to users and improved the abstraction to make it align better with how people think about it. 👍

```rust
use messaging::*;
wit_bindgen_rust::import!("../../wit/messaging.wit");
wit_error_rs::impl_error!(messaging::MessagingError);

fn main() -> Result<()> {
    let ps = Pub::open("my-messaging")?;
    for i in 0..3 {
        println!("sending messages");
        ps.publish(format!("rust-value-{}", i).as_bytes(), "rust")?;
        ps.publish(format!("gc-value-{}", i).as_bytes(), "global-chat")?;
        thread::sleep(Duration::from_secs(3));
    }
    Ok(())
}
```

And an example showing how a subscriber service could be authored:

```rust
let ps = Sub::open("my-messaging")?;
let sub_tok = ps.subscribe("rust")?;
let sub_tok1 = ps.subscribe("global-chat")?;

for _ in 0..3 {
    loop {
        let msg = ps.receive(&sub_tok)?;
        if !msg.is_empty() {
            println!("received message from topic 'rust'> value: {:?}", String::from_utf8(msg));
            break;
        }
    }

    loop {
        let msg = ps.receive(&sub_tok1)?;
        if !msg.is_empty() {
            println!("received message from topic 'global-chat'> value: {:?}", String::from_utf8(msg));
            break;
        }
    }
}
```

> One limitation of the current messaging interface and implementation is the lack of support for streaming events. This can be problematic in situations where the receive function is a blocking call that tries to pull the message broker for a new message. If the broker does not have any new messages, the receive function will be blocked, which can cause delays in message delivery. Additionally, the lack of streaming support can limit the scalability of the system, as the blocking call can cause bottlenecks in high-traffic scenarios. To address this limitation, we will be adding `time-to-expire` to the receive function in the near future and will be collaborating with the Wasm Component Model community to land `streams` feature in WIT.

Reviewer: "IMPORTANT NOTE:"

### Using the SQL Capability

> The latest release from Slight adds an exciting new capability to its portfolio of capabilities. The newly added SpiderLightning functionality enables WebAssembly programs to safely and generically interact with SQL databases. This capability is not only highly versatile, but also secure, as it includes functions for querying and modifying data using prepared statements, as well as handling errors in a way that ensures data integrity.

Reviewer: _safety_ is in the eye of the beholder. If you can use a sql query, you can do slq injection, which is NOT safe. :-)

So I'd say "to easily and generically" here.

> The latest release from Slight adds an exciting new capability to their already extensive portfolio of capabilities. The newly added SpiderLightning functionality enables WebAssembly programs to safely and generically interact with SQL databases. This capability is not only highly versatile, but also secure, as it includes functions for querying and modifying data using prepared statements, as well as handling errors in a way that ensures data integrity.

Reviewer 2: suggestion: this sounds a bit less "marketing speak"

```suggestion
The latest release from Slight adds an exciting new capability to its portfolio of capabilities. The newly added SpiderLightning functionality enables WebAssembly programs to safely and generically interact with SQL databases. This capability is not only highly versatile, but also secure, as it includes functions for querying and modifying data using prepared statements, as well as handling errors in a way that ensures data integrity.
```

Below is an example of using the SQL service in Slight. 

```rust
use sql::*;
wit_bindgen_rust::import!("wit/sql.wit");
wit_error_rs::impl_error!(sql::SqlError);

fn main() -> Result<()> {
    let sql = Sql::open("my-db")?;

    // create table if it doesn't exist
    sql.exec(&sql::Statement::prepare(
        "CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS users (id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, name TEXT NOT NULL)",
        &[],
    ))?;

    // add new user
    let rng = RNG::new(&Language::Elven).unwrap();
    let name = rng.generate_name();
    sql.exec(&sql::Statement::prepare(
        "INSERT INTO users (name) VALUES (?)",
        &[&name],
    ))?;

    // get all users
    let all_users = sql.query(&sql::Statement::prepare(
        "SELECT name FROM users",
        &[],
    ))?;
    dbg!(all_users);

    // get one user
    let one_user = sql.query(&sql::Statement::prepare("SELECT name FROM users WHERE id = ?", &["2"]))?;
    dbg!(one_user);

    // try sql injection
    assert!(sql
        .query(&sql::Statement::prepare("SELECT name FROM users WHERE id = ?", &["2 OR 1=1"]))
        .is_err());

    Ok(())
}
```

> 💡 The WIT file can be downloaded using `slight add sql@v0.3.1`

> The SQL interface is, as usual, paired with a slight configuration file to tell the host which SQL service is needed to provide this capability. Below is a sample `slightfile.toml` using the PostgreSQL database implementation, which is the only service `Slight` supports right now.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SQL interface is paired with a slight configuration file to tell the host which SQL service is needed to provide this capability. Below is a sample `slightfile.toml` using the PostgreSQL database implementation, which is the only service `Slight` supports right now.
```

```toml
specversion = "0.2"

[[capability]]
resource = "sql.postgres"
name = "my-db"
    [capability.configs]
    POSTGRES_CONNECTION_URL = "${azapp.POSTGRES_CONNECTION_URL}"
```

### Thank you!

We would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to all new contributors who have contributed to Slight! 

> As we mentioned in our ****[Introducing SpiderLightning - A Cloud System Interface with WebAssembly](https://deislabs.io/posts/introducing-spiderlightning-and-slight/)** blog, we are excited for the future of WebAssembly Component Model and WASI. We firmly believe that the work the BytecodeAlliance has done will enable all developers to build more portable and much more secure applications that can run anywhere! Thank you, for all the Bytecode Alliance contributors and maintainers for their work!

Reviewer 2: Removed extra *'s
```suggestion
As we mentioned in our **[Introducing SpiderLightning - A Cloud System Interface with WebAssembly](https://deislabs.io/posts/introducing-spiderlightning-and-slight/)** blog, we are excited for the future of WebAssembly Component Model and WASI. We firmly believe that the work the Bytecode Alliance has done will enable all developers to build more portable and much more secure applications that can run anywhere! Thank you, for all the Bytecode Alliance contributors and maintainers for their work!
```
